[Music]
being a teenager is hard as if dealing
with high school and with parents who
just don't understand isn't enough you
also have to summon powerful spirit to
defeat a mysterious evil force at least
you do if you're one of the team heroes
of persona 2 innocents in when it was
first released in Japan in 1999 innocent
sin stood out from most role-playing
games because of its contemporary
setting and atypical cast of teen heroes
now the game is finally being released
in the US but alas it's time to shine
has passed by today's standards the
mechanics of this RPG are repetitive and
outdated and subsequent superior
releases in the Persona series offer
much more involving tales of modern day
teens faced with otherworldly challenges
today persona 2 is a bit like a former
highschool star quarterback whose best
days are behind in twisted
as persona 2 begins strange things are
afoot at Seven Sisters High School the
school's emblem has been cursed and
students are suffering from unusual
disfiguring ailments meanwhile a
dangerous new trend is spreading teens
are using their cell phones to summon
Joker a mysterious figure who might make
your dreams a reality or SAP your soul
and leave you a shadow of your former
self and on top of it all any rumor that
spreads to enough people in Sumeru city
inexplicably becomes true the pieces
that make up the stories puzzle are
interesting but it takes too long for
these pieces to start coming together
the shallow character sketches of somber
Tetsuya intense Michelle lovelorn Lisa
and the other party members aren't
enough to make their quest feel personal
or involving at first and it's far too
many hours into the game before you
start learning more about this unlikely
team of heroes the fact that the game
looks at sage makes it less involving
still it wasn't a particularly
attractive game in 1999 and the
intervening years have not been kind
the tiny characters express themselves
with stiff shrugs and robotic shakes of
the head and although the high schools
and other contemporary locations that
serve as the dungeons for this RPG are a
refreshing change of pace from the
fantasy locales of so many games in the
genre these locations have no
personality as you explore a location
you're interrupted after every several
steps by a random encounter the
frequency of these encounters drags down
the pace of the game and the tiresome
menu-driven nature of the combat makes
the battles of chore at the start of an
encounter you can opt either to do
battle with the demons or to attempt to
communicate with them each member of
your party has four different ways of
making contact with these creatures if
you say or do the right things
demons give you tarot cards which you
need in order to summon new personas
initially it's fun to see how demons
respond to your different communication
techniques but once you learn which
techniques to use on which demons it
quickly stops being interesting and
successful contact becomes a matter of
just selecting an effective technique
from the list again and again of course
you don't want to talk your way out of
every potential fight you need to get
experience killing things so that you
can kill the tougher things you
encounter later on in battle you can use
physical attacks or call on your
personas to cast spells that harm your
enemies or benefit your party as you use
a persona it gradually ranks up giving
you access to more spells and some
personas can work together to cast
powerful Fusion spells but like
communicating with demons battling them
is generally a simple repetitive matter
of selecting the same effective options
from menus again and again you also have
the option of triggering Auto battle
which makes the characters keep
repeating your last selected actions
until either the battle is over or you
interrupt but this option doesn't speed
up the action you still have to wait for
every animation to play out which is
frustrating when you're tired of combat
and just want to move on when you're not
exploring one of the game's many
dungeons you move about Sumeru city on a
map here one of your most important
occupations is gathering rumors from
homeless people fortune tellers and
other rumour mongers and employing the
services of a detective agency to spread
those rumors making them come true but
these aren't exciting rumors about
buried treasure or juicy highschool
gossip about who's dating whom these are
rumors about shops selling weapons and
armor collecting and spreading these
rumors is a dull process and it's one
you need to engage in repeatedly to ette
equipment that suits your party's level
the main story lasts a few dozen hours
on its own and there's no shortage of
side quests you can complete that offer
significant rewards for your party but
despite its length the $40 price tag for
a ten-year-old game whose visuals and
mechanics make it a relic of a bygone
era is much too steep diehard fans of
the persona series who are eager to
experience
every chapter in the saga might be able
to overlook innocent sins data design
but those who are just in the market for
a fun and satisfying RPG are much better
off going with one of the more recent
entries in the series though we might
sometimes yearn to turn back the clock
we can't relive our teenage years and we
can't go back to 1999 when persona 2
innocent sin was an exciting example of
what an RPG could be
[Music]